#### Part 2
###### Prove FF Maintains Conservation Constraint (2 cases)

Suppose a fixed intermediate vertex $x$. Let $(w,x)$ represent the incoming edge into this vertex and $(x,y)$ the outgoing. WTS that Ford-Fulkerson maintains the conservation constraint, which leads us to four cases:

* Case 1: $(w,x)$ forward and $(x,y)$ forward  
* Case 2: $(w,x)$ forward and $(x,y)$ backward  
* Case 3: $(w,x)$ backward and $(x,y)$ forward  
* Case 4: $(w,x)$ backward and $(x,y)$ backward  

We proceed by proving cases 3 and 4 for vertices $x$ that are incident to backward residual edges.

##### Case 3
We want to show that conservation still holds such that $\forall x \neq s, t : f^\text{in}(x) = f^\text{out}(x)$, where $f^\text{in}(x)$ represents the total flow coming into $x$ in the original graph.

Given that $(w,x)$ is a backward edge, it corresponds to the real edge $(x,w)$ in the original flow network. This means flow is being undone (reduced) on $(x,w)$, which affects $x$’s outflow but not its inflow. Thus, the inflow to $x$ remains unchanged:

$$
f^\text{in}(x) = \text{old } f^\text{in}(x).
$$

Given that $(x,y)$ is a forward edge, there must be additional flow sent along $(x,y)$ in the original network. From $(w,x)$, we know that $b$ units of flow were redirected out of $x$. Thus, the total outflow can be expressed as:

$$
f^\text{out}(x) = \text{old } f^\text{out}(x) - b + b,
$$

$$
f^\text{out}(x) = \text{old } f^\text{out}(x).
$$

Therefore:

$$
f^\text{in}(x) = f^\text{out}(x),
$$

and the conservation constraint holds for Case 3.

##### Case 4
Given that $(w,x)$ is a backward edge, similar to Case 3 we know that this edge corresponds to an outgoing edge $(x,w)$ in the original flow network, thus reducing the existing flow on $(x,w)$:

$$
\text{new } f^\text{out}(x) = \text{old } f^\text{out}(x) - b.
$$

Similarly, $(x,y)$ is also a backward edge corresponding to an incoming edge $(y,x)$ in the original flow network, thus reducing $x$’s inflow:

$$
\text{new } f^\text{in}(x) = \text{old } f^\text{in}(x) - b.
$$

Together, we see:

$$
\text{new } f^\text{in}(x) = \text{new } f^\text{out}(x),
$$

so conservation holds for Case 4. QED.
